# Relative Free Energy and Structural Theory
Exergy cost analyses have become complementary to the analysis of energy systems. However, such analyses strongly depend on the expertise of the practitioner. This paper presents a mathematical theory that analyzes the decisions and pitfalls of conventional exergy costing based on the efficiencies of components. This theory is based on the definition of a linearized characteristic equation that represents the physical behavior of each component. The physical structure of the system described by its energy interrelationships is called “primal”, and its derivatives are the costs and consumptions. The obtained costing structure is the mathematical dual of its primal. 

The theory explains why the F and P costing propositions and any other suggestion may (or may not be) rational under a given disaggregation scheme. A result of the theory is a new thermodynamic function, called the relative free energy, and a new parameter called deterioration temperature due to a component’s deterioration cause  characterized by a thermodinamic trajectory  describing the effects on the exiting stream.

In this paper, it is demonstrated that the pair relative free energy - deterioration temperature is the Legendre transform of the pair enthalpy-entropy trayectory. The free energy function allows for an exact relationship between the amount of used resources and the increase in entropy generation caused by the deterioration path of the component. Costing with the relative free energy instead of exergy may open a new path for more precise assessments of component deteriorations.}
